We will use a case to analyze
which metrics would be appropriate
and which would not be
appropriate.
Let's think of an application like
Tulotero.
In one application, basically,
invest in customer capture,
they usually generate traffic on
your website, and the website you
have to convert, from the visits
you have to get people to download
the app on the smartphone,
and, in addition, after, the
next step, the next challenge
is that users who have downloaded
the app, because in an application
like Tulotero, they end up becoming
customers, they put
their data on the credit
card, and they end up
being players, and
the more recurrent it is better.
We have drawn the tunnel.
Well, what are the metrics
Eric Rice tells us we shouldn'
t be looking at?
Well, if at Tulotero we are permanently
making improvements, product improvements,
improvements about how we
communicate the value proposal,
incorporating new functionalities,
etc., it is a continuous process,
if we only look at that
sales are growing, that
percent grow a lot, or
the number of users,
we are losing a lot of
information.
The metrics that come in that
case could be sales or the number
of users.
We'd be losing a lot of things,
and now we'll see.
We'll think we want to measure
the progress in terms of whether
we have a proposal that you
like, whether people feel
the need to download an app
to buy the lottery, whether
they like our solution, whether
they like the experience
of buying lottery in an app, etc.
How can we measure it?
So, let's look at a few
metric.
We could use, for example, the
cost per lead.
Why is it?
Because if you are doing campaigns
on different channels of capture and
really nobody would have an interest
in what you are offering, because
you would pinch very few people
on those links and the cost per
lead would be very high.
If what we do is measure how
the cost per lead evolves over
time, well, because we can draw
certain conclusions that
can help us improve.
There are metrics that are
very important that are
those related to conversion.
In the case of your lottery, we could
define, for example, the number of
facilities split by the number
of visits to the website.
How many people access our
website by downloading the app?
If we are continuously making improvements
on the website, improvements in how
we communicate our proposal,
well, because this metric allows
us to know if we are on the right
track or not.
But if we didn't measure this,
if we only measured the evolution
in sales volume, we would be
losing, we couldn't
identify why it's selling
more.
What is?
Why have we improved our
website?
Why have we added new features
to the application?
Why is it?
Why are we investing more in marketing?
We would not know.
Instead, with this type of
metrics like the one we are
seeing, the number of installations
split by the people who visit the
website.
We have isolated the effect.
Another metric related to the
conversion would be the number
of active users, i.e. the
number of people who end up
becoming players, split by the
number of total installations.
If we are making improvements in
the application, incorporating
new functionalities, this should
be one of the metrics that
we are constantly analyzing.
And in fact, when you give up on
an improvement that really
has an impact, you can quickly
see this type of ratio as it increases.
It is a good sign.
And vice versa, if you
are mistaken, the metric would
probably go down.
Other very important metrics
that your app works well, that
people like it, and that you
also have to measure
permanently, is recurrence.
In this case, your lottery is very
important, because it is a product
thought to be very recurrent.
In order for people who like to
buy the lottery, usually buying it
every week, we have to measure
with what recurrence they
resort to your lottery.
Or the opposite metric,
the opposite, which is the chan
rate, measure what percentage
of our users are giving off.
And we would have to strive
permanently to improve the
application, improve customer service,
etc.
Improve the identification with the
brand so that the soil rate is increasingly
low.
In addition, in the case of your lottery,
in the case of an application of
this type, thought to have a very
long customer lifetime value, and
a great recurrence, it is very
important to permanently
monitor the chan rate.
Or we can do surveys, use
typical metrics, related
to customer satisfaction, such
as NPS surveys, for example,
or measure the number of customers
who are prescribers, who
recommend us to a
third party, etc.
As you can see, all these metrics
can give us very good information,
a very good perspective
on whether we are on the right
path or not, and also isolate
each of the actions we
are doing.
How can we measure that profitability
is improving?
What are we doing to improve
the model's profitability?
The metric is the one you already
know, the most common.
In this case it would be the ARP.
We should constantly measure
the average expenditure
of customers in a year.
If you do things well, it should
grow, because you're improving customer
engagement, that generates
more spending, etc.
And the other metric that you also
know is the customer lifetime value
minus the cost of acquisition
that depends on the ARPU and also
depends on whether you are
using the capture channels well.
If we want to use metrics to know
if we are on the right track and
we are finding the most suitable
channels.
Well, because here metrics are
usually very common and is, for example,
the cost per lead.
How much does it cost to bring
a lead to the website?
Or how much does it cost us to
capture a user who installs
in the app or who ends up being
a buyer user?
What is the customer lifetime value?
Because in the capture channels it is
important to also keep in mind that
not only you have to measure how much
it costs you to bring a customer,
but if you are testing different
channels, it is interesting to
keep in mind that you can be capturing
users of different profile that
at the end of some are more
profitable than others.
In a channel, it can cost you very
little to capture new customers, but
it turns out you don't buy any, for example.
Well, and finally, it's very
interesting to do permanently
with this scheme that we've seen
of identifying metrics and
being permanently measuring
them to see if all we're doing,
that continuous product
development learning
process, is having any impact
or not.
It is very useful to do a B test.
It is very useful to do concrete
experiments by comparing two hypotheses
and seeing whether one of the two,
A or B, has a positive or
better impact on these metrics
that we have identified as important.
For example, we have developed a
new functionality in the app
that allows you to subscribe to a
number, to say something.
What is what we do?
What you can do is activate it with
two groups, do a test to B, activate
it only with a percentage of customers
and measure whether in group A or
in control group, one of the important
metrics, for example, monthly spending
or recurrence, is increasing and
that allows you to isolate the
effects of that change you have
made and allows you to see
if you are on the right track
or not.